Edit hello world section and add more images (#2907)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/build-your-first-app/build-messaging-extension.md

---
title: Get started - Build a messaging extension
author: girliemac
description: Quickly create a Microsoft Teams messaging extension using the Microsoft Teams Toolkit.
ms.author: timura
ms.date: 03/25/2021
ms.topic: tutorial
---

> # Build a messaging extension for Microsoft Teams

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Build your first messaging extension for Microsoft Teams
```

There are two types of Teams *messaging extensions*: [Search commands](../messaging-extensions/how-to/search-commands/define-search-command.md) and [action commands](../messaging-extensions/how-to/action-commands/define-action-command.md).

This tutorial teaches you to create a *search command* (also known as a *search-based messaging extension*), which is a shortcut for finding external content and sharing it in Teams. Users can access search commands from the Teams compose or command box.

> **This tutorial teaches you to:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What you'll learn
```

* Create an app project and messaging extension bot using the Microsoft Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code.
* Understand the app configurations and the scaffolding relevant to messaging extensions.
* Host an app locally.
* Configure the bot for your messaging extension.
* Sideload and test a messaging extension in Teams.

## Prerequisites

> Ensure that you understand how to set up and build Teams app before you begin to build a channel or group tab. For more information, see [Create your first Microsoft Teams Hello World app](../build-your-first-app/build-and-run.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you understand how to set up and build a simple Teams app. For more information, see [create your first Microsoft Teams "Hello, World!" app](../build-your-first-app/build-and-run.md).
```

1. Enter a name for your Teams app. This is the default name for your app and also the name of the app project directory on your local machine.
1. Select **Create a new Bot** then click **Create Bot Registration** button. If successful, your new bot will have a *Registered* status. Now your bot is automatically registered with the Microsoft Azure Bot Service. 
1. Select **Finish** at the bottom of the screen to configure your project and save your project on your local machine.

## 2. Understand your app project components

Much of the app configurations and scaffolding are set up automatically when you create your project with the Teams Toolkit.

* App configurations: To view or update your messaging extension's configurations, select **App Studio** in the toolkit and go to **Messaging extensions**.
* App scaffolding: The app scaffolding provides a `botActivityHandler.js` file, located in the root directory of your project, for handling how your messaging extension (or technically, the [messaging extension's bot](#4-configure-the-bot-for-your-messaging-extension)) responds to search queries in Teams.

## 3. Set up a secure tunnel to your app

> For testing purposes, let's host your messaging extension on a local web server (port 3978). You are going to use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) to set up a secure localhost tunneling. Read [Build a bot for Microsoft Teams](../build-your-first-app/build-bot.md#3-set-up-a-secure-tunnel-to-your-app) for details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing purposes, let's host your messaging extension on a local web server (port 3978). You are going to use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) to set up a secure tunnel to localhost. See [build your first bot for Microsoft Teams](../build-your-first-app/build-bot.md#3-set-up-a-secure-tunnel-to-your-app) for details. 
```

> [!TIP]
> If you haven't sideloaded a Teams app before and run into issues, follow these [instructions](../build-your-first-app/build-and-run.md#4-sideload-your-app-in-teams).

1. In Visual Studio Code, select the **F5** key to launch a Teams web client.
1. In the app install dialog, select **Add for me**.

## 7. Test your messaging extension

Learn how messaging extensions work in a Teams chat.

1. Start a new chat. In the compose box, select **More** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/teams-client-more.png"::: and select the messaging extension app you just sideloaded.
1. Try searching for something (for example, **Tickets**). If your app is working, you'll see sample search results (you can add your own later).

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/build-your-first-app/me-teams-test.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing how a search-based messaging extension is used in the Teams compose box.":::

## Troubleshooting

The following information may help if you had issues completing this tutorial.

> **Bot isn't connected to Teams**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bot isn't connected to Teams
```
